README.md, before:

## Interactive Custom Transitions Demo in Swift

This is an demonstration of a Custom Transitions and Interactive Custom Transitions.

The idea was to illustrate a custom "presentation" transition between the scenes in a navigation controller. The goal was to allow interactive gestures to swipe between three different scenes, A, B, and C underneath the navigation controller to illustrate custom "push" and "pop" transitions between the navigation controller's scenes.

There's also code if you wanted to have a custom transition as the navigation controller, itself, is presented and dismissed, though I have commented out that code to avoid clouding the issue, namely custom transitions within a navigation controller.

To implement this, the suggestion was to implement a custom subclass of the navigation controller that would instantiate the custom animation controllers and interaction controllers as necessary:

![schematic](http://i.stack.imgur.com/TCYGC.png)

The heart of this is entirely in the custom navigation controller which:

- Adds gesture recognizers to its view

 - If the gesture is right to left (i.e. push), this looks to see if the source controller conforms to `CustomNavigationControllerDelegate` protocol, namely a method `pushToNextScene` that will initiate the transition to the next scene.

 - If the gesture is left to right, this looks to see if there is more than one view controller in the stack, and if so, initiates a pop. If not, we're at the top level and it initiates a dismiss back to the root.

- This sets the navigation controller's `delegate` 

See http://stackoverflow.com/questions/26680311/interactive-delegate-methods-never-called/26683223.

This is for illustrative purposes only.

Developed in Swift 3 on Xcode 8.3 for iOS 8.1. Theoretically it should work fine in iOS 7.0+. Also, the basic ideas are equally applicable for both Swift and Objective-C.

## License

Copyright &copy; 2014 Robert Ryan. All rights reserved.

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.

--

31 October 2014

Commit message:

Custom transitions ...
... for both presenting/dismissing the navigation controller itself as well as pushing/popping between the child `viewControllers` of the navigation controller.

I had previous commented this out for fear of confusing people doing simple navigation controller animations, but forgot that this was supplied in answer to a question about how to do both. But, hopefully, placing these two types of custom transitions in separate extensions will make it sufficiently clear.

README.md, after:

## Interactive Custom Transitions Demo in Swift

This is an demonstration of a Custom Transitions and Interactive Custom Transitions.

The idea was to illustrate a custom "presentation" transition between the scenes in a navigation controller. The goal was to allow interactive gestures to swipe between three different scenes, A, B, and C underneath the navigation controller to illustrate custom "push" and "pop" transitions between the navigation controller's scenes.

There's also code if you wanted to have a custom transition as the navigation controller, itself. I've placed this in a separate `UIViewControllerTransitioningDelegate` extension, separate from the `UINavigationControllerDelegate` extension that does the custom transitions between the navigation controller's child scenes. Clearly, if you don't want a custom transition as you initially present the navigation controller, you can remove the `UIViewControllerTransitioningDelegate` extension. Likewise, if you don't need custom transitions between the navigation controller's children, you can comment out the `UINavigationControllerDelegate` extension.

To implement this, the suggestion was to implement a custom subclass of the navigation controller that would instantiate the custom animation controllers and interaction controllers as necessary:

![schematic](http://i.stack.imgur.com/TCYGC.png)

The heart of this is entirely in the custom navigation controller which:

- Adds gesture recognizers to its view

 - If the gesture is right to left (i.e. push), this looks to see if the source controller conforms to `CustomNavigationControllerDelegate` protocol, namely a method `pushToNextScene` that will initiate the transition to the next scene.

 - If the gesture is left to right, this looks to see if there is more than one view controller in the stack, and if so, initiates a pop. If not, we're at the top level and it initiates a dismiss back to the root.

- This sets the navigation controller's `delegate` (so that you can customize transition as you push/pop between the navigation controller's own child view controllers).

- This sets the navigation controller's `transitionDelegate` (so that you can customize the transition as you present and dismiss the navigation controller itself).

See http://stackoverflow.com/questions/26680311/interactive-delegate-methods-never-called/26683223.

This is for illustrative purposes only.

Developed in Swift 3 on Xcode 8.3 for iOS 8.1. Theoretically it should work fine in iOS 7.0+. Also, the basic ideas are equally applicable for both Swift and Objective-C.

## License

Copyright &copy; 2014-2017. Robert Ryan. All rights reserved.

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.

--

31 October 2014
